FREE TREATMENT FOR CHILDREN WITH CLUBFOOT AT ZAMBO HOSPITAL

PHOTO: http://files.pna.gov.ph/source/2019/01/05/clubfoot.jpg - A Wikipedia photo shows a feet of a child with clubfoot defficiency.

ZAMBOANGA CITY - Twenty-two children born with clubfoot received free treatment at the government-run Zamboanga City Medical Center (ZCMC) on Saturday.

Dr. George Rojo, ZCMC orthopedic department head, said that 20 of the 22 patients have been under continuous treatment while the two are new patients.

The children, from newborn to 3-years old, hailed from the different parts of Zamboanga Peninsula and also from Tawi-Tawi.

Rojo said the feet of the children afflicted with clubfoot are placed on plaster cast weekly as part of the treatment. It is followed by a minor surgery and the attachment of braces for a month to enable the child to stand up and slowly walk.

Rojo said the ZCMC provides the treatment for free while the Philippine NGO (non-government organization) Council on Population, Health and Welfare and Miracle Feet finances the needed medical devices such as the brace.

He said the costs of the clubfoot treatment in a private orthopedic clinic or hospital ranges from PHP2,500 to PHP5,000 per session.

Eden Divinagracia, Philippine NGO Council on Population, Health and Welfare Inc. executive director, said the project aims to enable the patients to live normal lives, "go to school and look for a job as well as they will not be bullied by other people."

Bibing Limbaro, a grandmother of one of the patients, said the family is thankful to the ZCMC and its partners for giving her grandchild the ability to stand and walk normally.

Rojo urged parents of children with clubfoot to visit the ZCMC so that they can avail of the free treatment.

"The earlier for them to undergo treatment, the better," Rojo added.

He explained that clubfoot is acquired by the child during birth, where one or both feet are rotated inwards or downwards while some are associated with neuromuscular disease. (PNA)